# A procedure for parallel optimization of expensive black-box functions

Engineering problems often involve search for optimal parameters of physical objects (geometry, chemical composition etc) or mathematical models (coefficients, input data sets etc). Considering possible complexity of these problems, it is not always easy or even possible to come up with an analytical approach that answers the question. Instead, trial-and-error search using computer simulation can be performed, which, if done by eye and hand, is tedious and inefficient, if feasible at all.

One can build a code interface (function/procedure) that has input --- set of trial values, and output --- some scalar function that represents cost or error and calculated automatically every time simulation is performed. From this point of view the problem is reduced to a mathematical optimization. However, objective function does not have analytical form and, what is more crucial, is usually expensive (it can take many hours to evaluate it at a single point), and therefore called expensive black-box function.

Proposed here procedure allows to perform efficient optimization of expensive black-box functions. Usage of response surface methodology based on radial basis functions allows to reconstruct (and subsequently optimize) a given black-box function with a limited number of evaluations. Initial stage of a procedure is based on a custom Latin hypercube sampling and subsequent stage is based on a modification of CORS algorithm with space rescaling. In addition, procedure is designed to scale on multicore processors by mapping a function on batches of points in a parallel way (each core is running its own function evaluation), which results in a speedup that is equal to a number of cores available.
